README.md, before:

## OHS AI Portfolio

Smart, data-driven solutions to enhance occupational health and safety.  
This portfolio showcases AI models, dashboards, and automation tools for workplace safety management and compliance.

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/ohs_banner.png" alt="OHS AI Portfolio Banner" width="800"/>
</p>

# 🧠 OHS AI Portfolio – Data, IoT & Machine Learning in Occupational Health and Safety  

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10-blue?logo=python)
![Machine Learning](https://img.shields.io/badge/Machine%20Learning-Active-green?logo=tensorflow)
![IoT](https://img.shields.io/badge/IoT-Enabled-orange?logo=raspberrypi)
![Open to Collaboration](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_to-Collaboration-blueviolet)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-lightgrey)

---

### 👋 Hi there, I’m **Nathaniel Young**
A Physician Assistant and graduate student passionate about using **AI, data, and IoT** to improve occupational and environmental health outcomes.  
This repository documents my journey building intelligent, data-driven safety systems that protect workers and optimize workplace health.

---

## 🚀 About This Repository  
This repo contains my **OHS Data & IoT Learning Roadmap**, hands-on projects, and applied use cases showing how AI can make occupational safety smarter and more predictive.

🔹 **Focus Areas:**
- Injury risk prediction  
- Air quality forecasting  
- Heat stress and fatigue detection  
- Real-time IoT sensor analytics  

📄 **Download the Learning Roadmap (PDF):**  
👉 [OHS_Data_IoT_Learning_Roadmap_v3.pdf](roadmap/OHS_Data_IoT_Learning_Roadmap_v3.pdf)

---

## 🧩 Featured Projects  

| Project | Description | Notebook |
|----------|--------------|----------|
| 🩺 **Injury Risk Prediction** | Predicts likelihood of workplace injuries based on environmental and task data. | [01_injury_risk_prediction.ipynb](roadmap/projects/01_injury_risk_prediction.ipynb) |
| 🌫️ **Air Quality Forecasting** | Uses time-series data to forecast air pollution levels impacting worker health. | [02_air_quality_forecast.ipynb](roadmap/projects/02_air_quality_forecast.ipynb) |
| 🌡️ **Heat Stress Anomaly Detection** | Detects potential heat stress events using IoT temperature and humidity sensors. | [03_heat_stress_anomaly_detection.ipynb](roadmap/projects/03_heat_stress_anomaly_detection.ipynb) |

---

## 🧭 Learning Timeline  

| Phase | Focus | Tools & Concepts |
|-------|--------|------------------|
| 📊 **Phase 1:** Foundations | Python, Pandas, NumPy, Data Cleaning | Core data manipulation & visualization |
| 🤖 **Phase 2:** Machine Learning | Scikit-learn, TensorFlow | Predictive modeling & classification |
| 🌐 **Phase 3:** IoT Integration | MQTT, AWS IoT Core, Raspberry Pi | Streaming and monitoring OHS data |
| 📈 **Phase 4:** Insights & Dashboards | Plotly, Power BI | Reporting and visualization for decision support |
| 🔄 **Phase 5:** Continuous Learning | AI in healthcare & workplace safety papers | Keeping models relevant and ethical |

---

## 🧰 Tech Stack  
- **Languages:** Python, SQL  
- **Libraries:** Pandas, Scikit-learn, TensorFlow, Matplotlib, Seaborn  
- **Platforms:** Jupyter Notebook, AWS IoT Core, GitHub  
- **Data Sources:** OHS datasets, simulated IoT sensor data, WHO & ILO databases  

---

## 🤝 Collaboration  
I’m open to collaborating with data scientists, safety engineers, and health researchers exploring AI-powered OHS solutions.  
You can reach me on [LinkedIn](#) or contribute directly to this repo.

---

> “Building safer workplaces through data, AI, and connected intelligence.” ⚙️

mkdir assets
mv "A_banner_graphic_for_an_\"OHS_AI_Portfolio\"_is_disp.png" assets/ohs_banner.png
<p align="center">
  <img src="banner_ohs_ai_portfolio.png" alt="OHS AI Portfolio Banner" width="100%">
</p>
# OHS-AI-Portfolio
Data-driven Occupational Health &amp; Safety (OHS) portfolio integrating AI, IoT, and predictive analytics for workplace safety and environmental health.

Commit message:

Add learning progress section to README
Added a learning progress section to track courses and their statuses.

README.md, after:

## OHS AI Portfolio

Smart, data-driven solutions to enhance occupational health and safety.  
This portfolio showcases AI models, dashboards, and automation tools for workplace safety management and compliance.

<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/ohs_banner.png" alt="OHS AI Portfolio Banner" width="800"/>
</p>

# 🧠 OHS AI Portfolio – Data, IoT & Machine Learning in Occupational Health and Safety  

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.10-blue?logo=python)
![Machine Learning](https://img.shields.io/badge/Machine%20Learning-Active-green?logo=tensorflow)
![IoT](https://img.shields.io/badge/IoT-Enabled-orange?logo=raspberrypi)
![Open to Collaboration](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open_to-Collaboration-blueviolet)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-lightgrey)

---

### 👋 Hi there, I’m **Nathaniel Young**
A Physician Assistant and graduate student passionate about using **AI, data, and IoT** to improve occupational and environmental health outcomes.  
This repository documents my journey building intelligent, data-driven safety systems that protect workers and optimize workplace health.

---

## 🚀 About This Repository  
This repo contains my **OHS Data & IoT Learning Roadmap**, hands-on projects, and applied use cases showing how AI can make occupational safety smarter and more predictive.

🔹 **Focus Areas:**
- Injury risk prediction  
- Air quality forecasting  
- Heat stress and fatigue detection  
- Real-time IoT sensor analytics  

📄 **Download the Learning Roadmap (PDF):**  
👉 [OHS_Data_IoT_Learning_Roadmap_v3.pdf](roadmap/OHS_Data_IoT_Learning_Roadmap_v3.pdf)

---

## 🧩 Featured Projects  

| Project | Description | Notebook |
|----------|--------------|----------|
| 🩺 **Injury Risk Prediction** | Predicts likelihood of workplace injuries based on environmental and task data. | [01_injury_risk_prediction.ipynb](roadmap/projects/01_injury_risk_prediction.ipynb) |
| 🌫️ **Air Quality Forecasting** | Uses time-series data to forecast air pollution levels impacting worker health. | [02_air_quality_forecast.ipynb](roadmap/projects/02_air_quality_forecast.ipynb) |
| 🌡️ **Heat Stress Anomaly Detection** | Detects potential heat stress events using IoT temperature and humidity sensors. | [03_heat_stress_anomaly_detection.ipynb](roadmap/projects/03_heat_stress_anomaly_detection.ipynb) |

---

## 🧭 Learning Timeline  

| Phase | Focus | Tools & Concepts |
|-------|--------|------------------|
| 📊 **Phase 1:** Foundations | Python, Pandas, NumPy, Data Cleaning | Core data manipulation & visualization |
| 🤖 **Phase 2:** Machine Learning | Scikit-learn, TensorFlow | Predictive modeling & classification |
| 🌐 **Phase 3:** IoT Integration | MQTT, AWS IoT Core, Raspberry Pi | Streaming and monitoring OHS data |
| 📈 **Phase 4:** Insights & Dashboards | Plotly, Power BI | Reporting and visualization for decision support |
| 🔄 **Phase 5:** Continuous Learning | AI in healthcare & workplace safety papers | Keeping models relevant and ethical |
## 🧑‍💻 Learning Progress

| Course | Institution | Focus | Status |
|--------|--------------|--------|---------|
| [CS50P: Introduction to Programming with Python](https://cs50.harvard.edu/python/) | HarvardX | Core Python Programming | 🟢 In Progress |
| AI for Everyone | Coursera | AI Literacy & Ethics | ⚪ Planned |
| Data Science for Occupational Health | Self-paced | Applying analytics to OHS data | ⚪ Planned |

---

## 🧰 Tech Stack  
- **Languages:** Python, SQL  
- **Libraries:** Pandas, Scikit-learn, TensorFlow, Matplotlib, Seaborn  
- **Platforms:** Jupyter Notebook, AWS IoT Core, GitHub  
- **Data Sources:** OHS datasets, simulated IoT sensor data, WHO & ILO databases  

---

## 🤝 Collaboration  
I’m open to collaborating with data scientists, safety engineers, and health researchers exploring AI-powered OHS solutions.  
You can reach me on [LinkedIn](#) or contribute directly to this repo.

---

> “Building safer workplaces through data, AI, and connected intelligence.” ⚙️

mkdir assets
mv "A_banner_graphic_for_an_\"OHS_AI_Portfolio\"_is_disp.png" assets/ohs_banner.png
<p align="center">
  <img src="banner_ohs_ai_portfolio.png" alt="OHS AI Portfolio Banner" width="100%">
</p>
# OHS-AI-Portfolio
Data-driven Occupational Health &amp; Safety (OHS) portfolio integrating AI, IoT, and predictive analytics for workplace safety and environmental health.
